MCash
For Mcash cardless transaction, use
*945*57# and *945*57*merchantcode*amount#
CoralPay
For CoralPay cardless transaction, use *945*58# and *945*000*REFnumber#
What is ALAT?
ALAT by Wema is Wema Bank's fully Digital Banking Platform that allows you conduct all your banking transactions without ever having to visit any physical branch.
Who can use ALAT?
Everyone! you simply need to get registered on a smartphone. To operate your account, you may use your smartphone or revert to the *945# USSD banking.
How much does it cost to get ALAT?
ALAT is free to sign up on.
Which mobile platforms are supported by the ALAT Application?
The ALAT is currently supported on all IOS and Android devices. Please visit your Google Play store or App Store to download the application.
Can I create goals on ALAT?
Yes, goals creation is allowed for all tier three savings and current account holders on ALAT.
Email Indemnity Form
For Email Indemnity
What type of goals can I create on ALAT?
We have 3 variants of goals on ALAT
Fixed Goal: You can save daily, weekly or monthly towards a target amount with no withdrawals allowed. You also qualify for interest when you meet the target amount you set. Flexi Goal: You can save daily, weekly or monthly towards a target amount with 50% withdrawal allowed on the amount saved. You also qualify for interest when you meet the target amount you set.
Stash: You can save whatever you want, whenever you want, no withdrawal allowed. You also qualify for interest on your savings after 30 days.
You can earn up to 10% interest per annum on your Goal savings.
What is the highest amount I can save on goals?
NGN 999,999,999
Can I take loan on my goals?
Yes. You are entitled to a goal-based loan of up to 80% of the amount saved on goals at an interest of 20% per annum.
How to register on ALAT
Open app to landing page.
Click get started
Click Continue on value proposition page
Validate BVN
Enter BVN
Take photo of face
Take photo of signature
If BVN facial match fails,
OTP would be sent to a new customer's BVN phone number and used as an alternative for validating BVN.
OTP would be sent to existing WEMA Bank customer's BVN phone number and used as an alternative for validating BVN.
Create Profile
Enter email
Enter password
Confirm password
Secure Your account
Choose security question
Answer security answer
Enter referral code
Get to ALAT Dashboard and get Account number.
New to bank customers follow prompts to upgrade account:
Create PIN
Update residential address
Upload ID
Wallet customers on ALAT
Starting the process:
Open app to landing page.
Click get started
Click "Continue" on value proposition page
Initiating Wallet:
Click "Skip BVN" on BVN validation page Enter Wallet details:
Phone number
First name
Last name
Middle name (optional)
Gender
Date of birth
Validate OTP to phone number.
Create Profile
Enter email
Enter password
Confirm password
Secure your account
Choose security question
Answer security answer
Enter referral code
Get to ALAT Dashboard and get Wallet number.
Upgrade wallet later to account
Link BVN
How to Perform a Password Reset
On the ALAT application
Click on the 'Forgot Password' option
Enter your registered email address or username and click next Enter new password, and confirm new password entry.
Validate with ALAT PIN or Security Answer
Receive OTP on registered phone number and input in OTP segment
Click Submit
Login with new password
You need to have access to your registered Phone number to successfully reset your forgotten password
How to create an ALAT GOAL
Log into ALAT application using your registered email address and password
Log into ALAT application using your registered email address and password
Select "Goals" on the Home Page
Select your preferred savings type from either Personal Savings or Group Savings
For Personal Savings,
Select one of Fixed, Flexi or Stash Goals
Fill in the required fields and select "Next"
Review input and select "Create Goal"
For Group Savings,
Select Preferred savings type or "Join a group"
Fill in the required fields (Group Code for Group Savings) and select "Next"
Review input and select "Create Goal"
Note: Up to 12 users can perform a Group Savings on ALAT
How to perform ALAT PIN reset
Log into ALAT application using your registered email address and password
Click on 'Settings' and tap on 'ALAT Pin Management'
Click on 'Forgot ALAT Pin'
Input the answer to your Security Question
Receive OTP in registered email address and input in OTP segment
Input New Pin and Confirm New Pin
Click Submit
You need to have access to your registered Email address to successfully reset your ALAT PIN
How to Hotlist my ALAT card
Log into ALAT application using your registered email address and password
Select "Cards" on Home Page
Select "My Cards"
Select "Hotlist Card"
Select a reason for Card Hotlist on the list
Input ALAT PIN and select Hotlist
You can Hotlist your ALAT card if it is lost, stolen, damaged or if you suspect any fraudulent activity on your account.
My account is restricted, what do I do?
So sorry for the inconvenience, please check your mail for notifications from the Bank communicating the reason for this account and the steps required to rectify the issue.
No email? Do not panic, kindly chat us on Whatsapp on 09044411010 and we would be
happy to assist, alternatively you click on this link to log a complaint https://purpleconnect.wemabank.com/support/tickets/new
My transaction was declined, what can I do?
So sorry for the inconvenience, please check your account balance to confirm if the sufficiency of funds in your account.
Is your account balance sufficient and still the transaction was declined? kindly check your email for notifications from the Bank communicating the reason for the decline and the steps required to rectify the issue.
No email? Do not panic, kindly chat us on Whatsapp on 09044411010 and we would be
happy to assist, alternatively you can click on this link to log a complaint https://purpleconnect.wemabank.com/support/tickets/new
Can a draft be issued on a Purple Account and what charges will apply?
Drafts issued for payment of school fees are commission-free, for other drafts normal charges apply.
Is there interest on this account?
Yes, you earn the same interest as savings account
What is the opening balance for Purple Account?
N1,000
How is this account different from a normal savings account?
The account is meant specifically for youth; hence you get to enjoy events and promotional activities designed for youths. The documentation and age requirements of the account are also in line with what is obtainable in the youth segment.
Does my parent need to give their approval for me to open this account?
No, they don't. You can open this account on your own.
I am in the university; do I qualify to open this product?
Yes, you do.
What is Purple Account?
This is a savings account for teenagers & young adults especially those in secondary schools, tertiary institutions & fresh graduates. The account is designed to give financial freedom to young adults.
What age group qualifies to operate this account?
13-30 years
What is the maximum single deposit/withdrawal limit for this account?
The maximum single deposit limit for this account is N100,000
If you receive amounts more than this, you will need to upgrade your account to a Tier 3 savings account.
Daily Digital (ALAT, USSD, POS, ATM) transaction limit is N100,000. You can withdraw up to N100,000 on any of our Digital channel
What are the documents required to open this account?
Duly completed account opening form including signature mandate card
BVN
1 Passport Photograph
Any ID Card
Evidence of residential address (Water, Electricity, Waste, or telephone).
Can I get a debit card on this account?
Yes, you can
What documents do I need to provide to be able to upgrade my Purple account to a Purple Plus/Standard savings account?
You'll need to provide a valid means of identity i.e.
National ID Card
PVC
Driver's License or Intl Passport.
What benefits would I get if I upgrade my account to a Purple Plus Account?
You'll be able to enjoy the full benefits of Tier 3 account with;
No limits to transfers
No single deposit limits
No total savings limit
You'll also have access to all events and promotional activities designed for youths.
Is there a maximum cumulative balance for this account?
Yes, N500,000
What is the minimum operating balance for this account?
Zero (0)
Cable TV: Range
For cable TV menu, use *945*10#
DSTV
For DSTV, use *945*11# and *945*11*smartcardnumber#
GOTV
For GOTV, use *945*12# and *945*12*smartcardnumber#
Startimes
For Startimes, use *945*13# and *945*13*smartcardnumber#
Airtime (Others)
For airtime recharge (others), use *945*phonenumber*amount#
Airtime (Self)
For airtime recharge (self), use *945*amount#
Airtime/Data
For airtime/data top-up, use *945*9#
Transfers
To transfer/send money, use *945*accountnumber*amount#
Account Balance
To check your account balance,
1. Use *945*0# 2. Log into your ALAT app.
Account Opening
To open a new account, use *945*1#
Account Reactivation
To reactivate your account, use *945*5#
Account Restriction
To restrict your account, use *945*991#
BVN Management
For BVN management, use *945*4#
Change PIN
To change your PIN, use *945*00#
Change Primary Account
To change your primary account, use *945*2*oldaccountnumber*newaccountnumber#
What Is USSD?
USSD is the service that allows all WEMA Bank account holders to initiate transactions from their registered phone number regardless of the type of phone by dialing *945#.
What activities can I perform using this service?
Airtime/data purchase
Transfer (intrabank and interbank)
Bills payment (Cable TV, Electricity bill, Internet services)
Cardless transactions (Mcash, Coralpay)
Open account
Check balance
Change PIN & Account
Link/Get BVN
Lagos state collection Account restrictions
What is the code for Wema USSD?
*945#
How do I register for Wema USSD?
Dial *945*01#
Input Account Number
Input Date of Birth (DD-MM-YYYY)
Input 4-digit PIN of choice Confirm PIN
Why should I sign up for Wema USSD?
It is available outside banking hours (24/7).
It is secured.
It doesn't require internet.
It is easy and convenient to use.
It's a faster means to carryout transactions.
Do I need to have a Wema Bank account to sign for USSD?
Yes, and you can also open an account via USSD.
I have a Wema Account; can I access my Bank account using USSD?
Yes
Can I send money to people not registered on USSD?
Yes
What is the maximum I can transfer using USSD?
#500,000
How often can customers transfer funds?
As often as they like to a max of #500,000.
Is *945# available on all networks?
Yes, it is available on all networks (MTN, Airtel, 9mobile, GLO)
How do I switch accounts on USSD?
*945*old account number*new account number*2#
Dial *945# from your registered mobile number
Select Next Page
Select "Change Account"
Enter Provisioned Account (the account you currently run USSD on)
Enter your Preferred Account Enter your USSD PIN
How do I change my USSD PIN?
Dial *945*00# from your registered mobile number
Enter your Current USSD PIN
Enter New PIN
Confirm New PIN
Done
How do I increase my limit?
You can increase your limit up to 500,000 daily by visiting the nearest WEMA Bank branch.
What do I do if I forgot my USSD PIN?
Visit the nearest WEMA Bank branch and request for a PIN reset or call 070CALLALAT for a PIN Reset.
My transaction was declined, what can I do?
So sorry for the inconvenience, please check your account balance to confirm if the sufficiency of funds in your account.
Is your account balance sufficient and still the transaction was declined? kindly check your email for notifications from the Bank communicating the reason for the decline and the steps required to rectify the issue.
No email? Do not panic, kindly chat us on Whatsapp on 09044411010 and we would be
happy to assist, alternatively you can click on this link to log a complaint https://purpleconnect.wemabank.com/support/tickets/new
ALAT Account Customer Update Form
To update your ALAT Account Information
ALAT SMS Deactivation Indemnity Form
For ALAT SMS Indemnity
WEMA Account Reactivation Form
To reactivate your Wema Account
WEMA Account Upgrade or Conversion Form
To upgrade your Wema Account
WEMA Customer Information Update Form (Individual)
To update your WEMA Account Information
What are the Acceptable Valid Means of IDs?
Means of ID:
This is also referred to as Means of Identification and is needed to confirm the identity of an individual. Some of the information contained in the means of ID are Names, Date of Birth, ID Number etc.
The recognized means of ID that is accepted in Nigeria include the following -
Utility bill:
This is a document accepted as proof of address for individual/sole proprietor accounts and Proof of address cannot be older than 3 months (except for rental agreement).
What is ALAT for Business?
ALAT for Business is the Internet Banking platform for Corporate or SME customers.
Which businesses can sign up on ALAT for business?
All Corporate and Small Medium Enterprises (SMEs) with existing accounts with the Bank
Can I request for a debit card for my business on ALAT for Business?
Yes, you can.
Can I make offshore transfers using ALAT for Business?
Yes, you can
What is the maximum amount I can transfer overseas using ALAT for Business?
10,000 US dollars per day as directed by CBN
What are the requirements for registering on ALAT for Business
A request letter written with the company's letter head and a filled ALAT for Business onboarding form should be sent to the branch OR you can self-onboard by clicking on the "Sign-Up" tab after launching the webpage.
Do I need a hardware Token?
Single signatory customers can use just their transacting PIN or PIN + Biometrics to a maximum of N2million and N5million respectively, however, transactions above N5million requires a hard token. Multiple signatory customers must always make use of the hard token regardless of the amount.
How many users can access my Alat for Business?
There is no limit to the number of users that can be created on a customer's profile.
What can I do with ALAT for Business?
Transfer (intrabank and interbank) to a single beneficiary
Bulk transfers (intrabank and interbank)
Foreign Exchange (FX) transfer
Pay bills
Buy Airtime
Request for a Corporate Debit Card
Download Account Statement View Transaction Receipt
I want to register on ALAT for Business, what do I need?
You can self-onboard by clicking on the "Sign-Up" tab after launching the webpage OR you can submit a request letter with your company's letter head and a filled ALAT for Business onboarding form at the branch closest to you.
How can I sign up on ALAT for Business?
Self On-boarding (Web Only)
From your browser, launch the application business.alat.ng
Click-up Sign-up
Select profile type (single or multiple signatory)
Enter your account number
Enter OTP sent to email/phone number linked to your account number
Input admin details
Enter additional account (if any)
Upload board resolution (For multiple signatory customers only)
Submit
N:B The request will be forwarded to the branch and the login information would be forwarded to your email address and phone number (username - sent to admin phone number, default password - sent to admin email address) once the branch verifies this request processes the admin gets login information.
How to reset your ALAT for Business password on the website
From your browser, launch the application business.alat.ng
Click on Forgot Password
Enter your username
Click Continue
Enter a new password
Confirm your new password
Enter OTP - sent to phone number/email address linked to your profile Click Reset Password
How to reset your ALAT for Business password on the mobile application
Click Forgot Password Enter your username
Enter a new password
Confirm your new password
Click Submit
Enter OTP - sent to phone number/email address linked to your profile Click Confirm
How to check my recent transactions on ALAT for Business
Log in to the ALAT for Business Application.
From the dashboard which will display all the accounts attached to the profile, click on the account you wish to view, it will display the options Recent Activities and Transaction History.
On the Recent Activities Option, select the date range and search.
Also, you can click on Statement which will send the statement into your email.
My transaction was declined, what can I do?
So sorry for the inconvenience, please check your account balance to confirm if the sufficiency of funds in your account.
Is your account balance sufficient and still the transaction was declined? kindly check your email for notifications from the Bank communicating the reason for the decline and the steps required to rectify the issue.
No email? Do not panic, kindly chat us on Whatsapp on 09044411010 and we would be
happy to assist, alternatively you can click on this link to log a complaint https://purpleconnect.wemabank.com/support/tickets/new
My card details got compromised, what do I do?
Stop usage by immediately turning off master status on card control. If you wish to hotlist your debit card, please visit the ALAT Application or call contact center on 08039003700
I got an email requesting my card details and pin, what do I do?
Please do not respond, rather, report fraudsters to us through a different channel entirely. Kindly contact us via telephone on 07000PURPLE or 08039003700 or chat us on Whatsapp on 09044411010 and we would be happy to assist.
If my phone is stolen or my account has been hacked, what am I expected to do?
Dial the emergency code *945*911# to deactivate your USSD profile or Block your account.
A fraudulent transaction occurred on my account, what can I do?
Immediately visit the ALAT Application to change your login credentials i.e. password and PIN as well as your debit/credit card PIN.
Should you encounter any difficulty, kindly chat us on Whatsapp on 09044411010 and we would be happy to assist, alternatively you can click on this link to log a complaint https://purpleconnect.wemabank.com/support/tickets/new
What is Wema School Online Solution? This is a one stop school solution for payments
What schools are eligible?
All schools are eligible
Primary School
Secondary School
Colleges of Education
Polytechnics Universities
What does the school require to enlist on this school solution?
Online presence, license to operate as a school.
Can the school opt for only the fees payment module without enlisting on the portal solution?
Yes
ABUJA Electricity Payment
For Abuja electricity payment, use *945*28*meternumber*amount#
EKO Electricity Payment
For Eko electricity payment, use *945*25*meternumber*amount#
Electricity Bill
For your electricity bill, use *945*24#
ENUGU Electricity Payment
For Enugu electricity payment, use *945*29*meternumber*amount#
IBADAN Electricity Payment
For Ibadan electricity payment, use *945*27*meternumber*amount#
IKEJA Electricity Payement
For Ikeja electricity payment, use *945*26*meternumber*amount#
JOS Electricity Payment
For Jos electricity payment, use *945*30*meternumber*amount#
KADUNA Electricity Payment
For Kaduna electricity payment, use *945*31*meternumber*amount#
KANO Electricity Payment
For Kano electricity payment, use *945*32*meternumber*amount# PORTHARCOURT Electricity Payment
For Portharcourt electricity payment, use *945*33*meternumber*amount#
JAMB
For JAMB, use *945*71#
What is Fixed Term Loan?
Fixed-term loan is an advance facility repayable in fixed monthly installments.
I don't have a salary account with Wema bank, can I have access to a fixed-term loan?
So sorry, you cannot have access to a fixed-term loan, kindly visit the nearest branch to open a salary account with Wema Bank.
What is the maximum loan amount I can get?
The Fixed-Term loan allows a loan at seven (7) multiples of your net monthly salary subject to a maximum of N2 million.
What is the maximum loan tenure for a fixed-term loan?
The maximum tenure for the fixed-term loan is 24 months
How long does the loan take to get disbursed into my account?
You will receive a response on the approval/decline of your request within 72hrs
Can I apply for this loan without visiting the branch?
Sincere apologies, you will be required to visit a branch to apply for this facility
What collateral do I need for this loan?
No collateral is required for this facility
What are the documents required to access this facility?
The documents required are;
Letter of Introduction signed by authorized signatories of employer
Irrevocable Letter of Salary Domiciliation (duly executed by employer's authorized signatories)
N.B: The signatories must be independently verified by a representative of Wema Bank
Proof of Income (3 months' payslips) or 3 months account statement
Proof of address (Physical visitation and report by RM or Verifier DSA)
Proof of Identity (Office ID is only acceptable but National ID, International Passport or
Driver's License may be required where necessary) Duly completed Loan Application Form & executed offer section
I am a new staff; can I access this loan?
So sorry you cannot as 3 months' payslip is required.
I don't have an ID Card yet; can I access this loan?
A national means of identification may suffice to access this facility.
I am an entrepreneur; can I access a fixed-term loan?
Yes, all registered business owners can access this facility.
